Marowak is a bipedal Pokémon with a spike located on its tail.
On its stomach, Marowak is very light brown in color, as opposed to most its body, which is a darker brown.
Two small claws, one on each hand, serve as its thumbs, and two large nails make up its toes.
Marowak's head is composed of the skull it once wore as a mask.
It can no longer remove the skull, as it became a part of its body.
Marowak's jaw is composed of bone, and its nostrils are located on the nose of the skull.
Its triangular eyes are brown and are also located on the skull.
Marowak is well known for ferocity with its bone club, which it is said to collect from a hidden graveyard.
It and its pre-evolution, Cubone, are the only known Pokémon that can learn Bone Club and Bonemerang.

Upon evolution, Marowak has overcome the grief of its mother's passing.
Now ferocious and violent, Marowak is an adept combatant, and uses the bone it carries as a weapon and a boomerang.
Marowak has also been recorded pounding on boulders with the bone club it carries in order to tap out messages to others.
It lives in mountains to test its skills.

In the Alola region, Marowak was faced with an abundance of its natural enemies, Grass-type Pokémon.
This harsh environment led it to bond closely with its friends, which is said to have created a sort of sixth sense and caused it to take a new form.
Alolan Marowak rubs the bone it wields against its forehead to light the ends in a green flame, and then twirl the flaming bone.
It specializes in an attack where it releases a weak ball of flame from its bone that will relentlessly pursue its foe.
Alolans would fear it for a conjurer, due to its rarity and the fearful sight of it dancing with its bone.
Alolan Marowak's body is black, and its skull has a dark, flamelike mark between the eyes.
Its eyes are also a pale gray.
Compared to regular Marowak's squatter, thicker body, Alolan Marowak is relatively thin, making it lighter.
White markings echoing shoulder blades, vertebrae, and hip bones also line its back.
The bone Alolan Marowak uses is longer than the one regular Marowak uses.
Alolan Marowak is the only known Pokémon that can learn Shadow Bone.

Originally, it was weak and timid.
After evolution, its temperament becomes violent, and it begins to wield bones as weapons.
This Pokémon is out for vengeance on its natural enemy, Mandibuzz.
It throws bones like boomerangs to try to take it down.
The bones it possesses were once its mother's.
Its mother's regrets have become like a vengeful spirit protecting this Pokémon.
Its custom is to mourn its lost companions.
Mounds of dirt by the side of the road mark the graves of the Marowak.
