Electabuzz is a slightly humanoid creature with a few feline traits.
It is covered in yellow fur with black stripes; a large stripe on its chest is shaped like a lightning bolt.
It has a long tail.
There are three, clawed toes on each of its feet, two in front and one in back, while it has five fingers on each hand.
Electabuzz has two sharp fangs and a pair of antennae with bulbous ends.
In the dark, Electabuzz will glow a light blue with the electrical charge stored inside of it.

Electabuzz is capable of storing huge amounts of electrical energy inside of its body over long periods.
During torrential thunderstorms, Electabuzz will compete to determine which is capable of attaining the highest ground, so as to be most likely struck by a bolt of lightning.
If struck, Electabuzz will absorb the electricity and will not be harmed.
It is in this same manner that captured Electabuzz are sometimes used in small towns as an alternative to lightning rods.

As demonstrated in the anime, Electabuzz is enraged by the color red.
If this Pokémon sees the color red, it will become violent and raze the area around it.
In battle, Electabuzz windmills its arms, apparently to add momentum to its punches.
This method of battle seems ineffective, as its opponent has been known to escape in the meantime.
It is also capable of entirely nonverbal communication via electrical currents when in close proximity to another of its species.
Electabuzz typically resides in or around power plants, and can also be found in grasslands.
It has been known to wander into cities and cause blackouts.

Half of all sudden blackouts are caused by Electabuzz gathering at electric power plants and gobbling up electricity.
Electricity leaks from it in amounts far greater than the amount of electricity it eats.
Electricity permeates its body.
It swings its arms round and round to charge up electricity before unleashing a punch.
While it's often blamed for power outages, the truth is the cause of outages is more often an error on the part of the electric company.
