Aerodactyl is a reptilian, bipedal Pokémon with large, membranous wings.
It has sharply pointed ears and a fierce expression with intense eyes.
Its snout is ridged, with a gaping mouth and strong lower jaw full of serrated fangs.
Its body is covered in light violet-gray skin with violet wings.
Aerodactyl's wings consist of a membrane running from the side of the body to the tip of an elongated finger.
The clawed hands at the bend of each wing allow it to grasp objects.
A hump-like ridge grows from its back and it has a strong, arrow-tipped tail.
Its talon-like feet are capable of scooping up and tightly clutching its prey in flight.

When Aerodactyl Mega Evolves, its body begins to turn to stone, which some researchers claim is its original appearance before fossilization.
It grows larger in size and sprouts jagged black spikes all over its body.
There are five spikes at the wrist joint of each wing, replacing its hands.
Three small spikes grow along the tail, and the spine on its back has become large and stony.
The rear talons of the feet have also turned black.
Its chin and ears are each decorated with a large spike, with rocky plates marking its eyebrows and the corners of its jaw.
Similar stone ornaments are present on its chest on its torso: two small marks flanking a longer mark.
Its eyes have changed to a dark green color.
When it Mega Evolves, Mega Aerodactyl becomes even more vicious than it was before.
The reason for that supposedly is because of the excess of this Pokémon's power is causing it pain.

Due to the sharp appearance of Aerodactyl's fangs, it was originally thought to be exclusively a carnivore.
However, the anime shows it joyfully consuming fruit.
Its serrated fangs and ferocious attitude are nevertheless very imposing, and it is said to be capable of effortlessly ripping out enemies' throats.
With its impressive wings, Aerodactyl fearlessly soars high in the skies, freely letting out its high-pitched cries.
When at rest it enjoys the safety and seclusion of the mountains where it likes to nest.
Aerodactyl is extant using Fossil revitalization, but is considered extinct in the wild.

A Pokémon from the age of the dinosaurs. It used its sawlike fangs to shred its prey before eating them.
In ancient times, it ruled the skies. A widely accepted theory is that it went extinct due to a large meteor impact.
Restored from DNA found in amber, this Pokémon exhibited ferocity that was greater than expected. Some casualties resulted.
It flew through the open skies over the ancient continent as if they were its own. When it touched ground, its walk was weak and slow.
