Pichu is a small, ground-dwelling rodent Pokémon with pale yellow fur.
Its eartips, collar, and tail are black and angular.
Pichu's pink cheek pouches can store small amounts of electricity, and its tiny nose looks like a dot.
Pichu is classified as a quadruped, but it can walk easily on its hind legs.

Pichu is a social Pokémon known for its playful and mischievous demeanor.
It is usually found in groups and often touch tails with other Pichu as a show of courage, creating a shower of sparks that can make them cry.
It is inept at storing electricity, and may discharge if amused, startled, or subjected to shock.
However, it cannot discharge without being shocked itself.
Charging up is more easily done on days of dryness or thunderclouds.
The crackling of static electricity generated by Pichu is audible.
It can zap an adult human, but will surprise itself if it does.
Pichu primarily lives in the forest, though it has also been depicted to thrive in urban areas.

Pichu has an alternate form called Spiky-eared Pichu that appeared in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver and the anime and manga.
This form is female-only and has three spikes on the tip of its ear, but otherwise looks the same as any other Pichu.


It plays with others by touching tails and setting off sparks.
This appears to be a test of courage.
It is not yet skilled at storing electricity.
It may send out a jolt if amused or startled.
Pichu charges itself with electricity more easily on days with thunderclouds or when the air is very dry.
You can hear the crackling of static electricity coming off this Pokémon.
When Pichu plays with others, it may short out electricity with another Pichu, creating a shower of sparks.
In that event, this Pokémon will begin crying, startled by the flash of sparks.

It is not yet skilled at controlling electricity.
If you take your eyes off it, it may shock itself.
Despite this Pokémon's cute appearance, those who want to live with one should prepare to be on the receiving end of its electric jolts.
It still can't use electricity well.
When it's surprised or excited, it discharges electricity unintentionally.
It has electric sacs in its cheeks.
When they're fully charged, Pichu plays very energetically.
