It evolves into Jigglypuff when leveled up with high friendship, which evolves into Wigglytuff when exposed to a Moon Stone.
Igglybuff is a small, bipedal balloon-like animal that is completely pink.
Its body can change to deep pink when the temperature increases.
It has a rounded tuft of hair on top of its head, a small swirl-like pattern on its forehead, and red eyes.
Igglybuff has small, stubby limbs.
This small Pokémon is extremely elastic and can bounce like a ball, although it may not be able to stop if it does this.

It smells sweet to calm the emotions of its foes.
Although it has singing abilities, it is not able to sing for long periods due to its underdeveloped vocal cords.
It often gets a sore throat from singing too frequently.
Igglybuff tend to live in the grasslands close by freshwater streams.
It uses water from the streams to gargle in its sore throat.

It has a very soft body. If it starts to roll, it will bounce all over and be impossible to stop.
Its extremely flexible and elastic body makes it bounce continuously—anytime, anywhere.
Instead of walking with its short legs, it moves around by bouncing on its soft, tender body.
Igglybuff's vocal chords are not sufficiently developed.
It would hurt its throat if it were to sing too much.
This Pokémon gargles with freshwater from a clean stream.
Igglybuff has a soft and plushy body that feels very much like a marshmallow.
From this body wafts a gently sweet fragrance that soothes and calms the emotions of its foes.
Its soft and pliable body is very bouncy.
When it sings continuously with all its might, its body steadily turns a deepening pink color.
It has a soft and bouncy body. Once it starts bouncing, it becomes impossible to stop.
Its body has a faintly sweet scent and is bouncy and soft. If it bounces even once, it cannot stop.
It likes to sing but is not yet good at it.
With praise and encouragement, it will get better little by little.
It moves by bouncing along.
As it moves a lot, it sweats, and its body gives off a sweet aroma.
It's always practicing its singing because it wants to improve.
Even when it's asleep, it keeps singing in its dreams!.
Left to its own devices, it will constantly practice singing.
You should make it take a break so it doesn't hurt its throat.
Igglybuff loves to sing. Its marshmallow-like body gives off a faint sweet smell.
Taking advantage of the softness of its body, Igglybuff moves as if bouncing.
Its body turns a deep pink when its temperature rises.
