Murkrow is an avian Pokémon with black feathers.
Its crooked, yellow beak and the three, feathery tufts on its head resemble a witch's nose and hat respectively.
The feathery crest is smaller on the female than on the male.
It has semi-circular, red eyes with white sclerae and pupils and a spiky collar of feathers around its neck.
The shaggy feathers on its tail resemble the end of a broom, and there is a thin, red band at the base of the tail.
Its yellow feet have four toes, three facing forward and one backward.

Murkrow has a fondness for anything sparkly, and it will steal things such as jewelry to bring it back to its nest.
Its fondness for shiny objects go as far as fighting with other Pokémon that enjoy shiny objects, such as Meowth and Persian, to gain their stashes.
Whenever it is chased, it loses the attacker by leading it down dark mountain trails, and sometimes it does this to travelers as a mean spirited prank.
Superstition regards Murkrow as Pokémon of ominous things to come, and of great misfortune if one is seen at night.
It is possible to train a Murkrow to repeat words, as seen under Team Rocket's ownership.
Murkrow usually lives in forests or swamps.

It hides any shiny object it finds in a secret location.
Murkrow and Meowth loot one another's stashes.
Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night.
Murkrow was feared and loathed as the alleged bearer of ill fortune.
This Pokémon shows strong interest in anything that sparkles or glitters.
It will even try to steal rings from women.

They awaken at dusk and take wing in the twilight, leading to the expression, “Get home before the Murkrow fly”.
Seen as a symbol of bad luck, it's generally disliked.
Yet it gives presents—objects that sparkle or shine—to Trainers it's close to.
It has a weakness for shiny things.
It's been known to sneak into the nests of Gabite—noted collectors of jewels—in search of treasure.
It searches for shiny things for its boss.
Murkrow's presence is said to be unlucky, so many people detest it.
