Slowking is a bipedal Pokémon with a Shellder latched onto its head.
It is primarily pink, with a pale yellow muzzle and scaled belly.
Its feet and hands each have a single clawed digit, while the hands also have a clawless thumb.
Around its neck is a spiny ruff with alternating red and white stripes.
The Shellder on its head has a spiral shape with two horns near the base.
A red gem resides in the center of the Shellder.

Shellder's bite releases venom into Slowpoke's brain, causing a chemical chain-reaction that unlocks a superior intelligence and extraordinary power.
More venom is injected into Slowking every time it yawns.
The more venom the Shellder releases, the more intelligent Slowking will become.
However, if the Shellder on its head comes off, it will forget everything it has learned.
Slowking's intelligence can match that of a human and it constantly attempts to learn more.
Its inspiration and intuition are also highly developed, and Slowking is able to stay calm in any situation and plan situations with effective results.
In the anime, it can understand and speak the human language.
According to The Complete Pokémon Pocket Guide, it has such an easy-going personality that it is never stressed.
Slowking lives by the water's edge.
It has been seen eating seaweed and drinking coconut milk.
In Alola, Slowking occasionally matches wits with Oranguru by the beach.


It has incredible intellect and intuition.
Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected.
When its head was bitten, toxins entered Slowpoke's head and unlocked an extraordinary power.
Slowking undertakes research every day in an effort to solve the mysteries of the world.
However, this Pokémon apparently forgets everything it has learned if the Shellder on its head comes off.

A poisonous bite reacted with its system, blessing it with the enhanced intellect of a genius.
It has full control of its psychic powers.
This Pokémon is so famed for its intellect that a proverb still persists in some regions: "When in doubt, ask Slowking".
It's constantly coming up with new ideas that would change the world, but as soon as it hits upon a new idea, it forgets it.
It's called “the sage of the sea.
It engages in battles of wits with Oranguru, but the result is usually a draw.
