Scizor is a bipedal, insectoid Pokémon with a red, metallic exoskeleton.
It has gray, retractable forewings and hind wings with simple, curved venation.
Its head is kite-shaped with three blunt horns extending above its forehead, and dark yellow eyes.
Scizor's neck and part of its thorax give the appearance of being exposed: they show black skin, and are surrounded by its raised exoskeleton.
Scizor has a large abdomen with three black, pointed stripes below the waist; the female has a larger abdomen than the male.
Scizor has broad shoulders and thin, segmented arms ending in large, round pincers.
Scizor's legs are defined by large hip joints, thin thighs, and wide calves, its feet ending in one clawed toe in front and another in the back.

Mega Scizor's pincers lengthen and develop serrations.
The lower half of the claws turns white and gain three pointed spikes on the underside.
The barbs on Mega Scizor's claws can stab through concrete, and opponents caught in them are unable to escape.
1] Its eyespots are now blue with a thin black rim.
Though they lack the black rim, its eyes are blue as well.
Additional pieces of black armoring appear on various area of its body: a three-pointed crest on its forehead and striated coverings on its shoulders and thighs.
Mega Scizor's legs are less detailed and resemble large, tapered spikes with white tips.
Scizor's body is as hard as steel, with claws strong enough to crush any hard object.
They can be opened and closed like jaws, and are patterned with black, eyespots with yellow "pupils".
It will raise its claws and wave them around to scare off predators or foes, giving it the appearance of having three heads.
Scizor is incapable of flight, instead quickly flapping its wings to regulate its body temperature.
It lives in grasslands.

This Pokémon's pincers, which contain steel, can crush any hard object it gets a hold of into bits.
It has a steel-hard body.
It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers.
Scizor has a body with the hardness of steel.
It is not easily fazed by ordinary sorts of attacks.
This Pokémon flaps its wings to regulate its body temperature.

It uses its wings to adjust its body temperature.
Otherwise, its metal body would become too hot and melt in the heat of battle.
Once it has identified an enemy, this Pokémon smashes it mercilessly with pincers hard as steel.
Its body is like steel.
Its tough, heavy pincers are more suited to smashing enemies than grabbing them.
Once it has identified something as an enemy, it will continue beating them with its steel-hard pincers until there's nothing left but scraps.
