Heracross is a bipedal, beetle-like Pokémon covered in a blue exoskeleton.
There is a long, pronged horn on its forehead.
The horn ends in a cross on the male and a heart-shape in the female.
On either side of the horn is a short antenna with a spherical tip.
Heracross has oval, yellow eyes.
Its forearms have a pair of spikes near the wrists, while its thighs have a single spike each.
It has two claws on its hands, and a single long claw on each foot.
There is a single pair of wings covered by its carapace, which can been seen during its release from a Poké Ball in the 3D games.

Mega Heracross is bulkier than its previous form.
Thin orange markings now rim its head, hands, and shoulders.
Additionally, there is a half-circle, orange marking over its eyes.
It now has a long, pointed nose that curves slightly upward.
Its back now lacks wings and is completely yellow.
The horn on its head has grown into a large, simple spike with two smaller spikes on the front.
The antennae have lengthened as well, and now have ovoid tips.
Mega Heracross's forearms have thickened and lost their spines.
This Pokémon has a high body temperature, so it opens the shells of its arms and torso to allow heat to escape.

Heracross's claws allow it to dig into the ground for sturdy footing or climb trees.
Using its horn, it throws opponents or competitors for food.
It can lift and throw objects 100 times its own weight.
It lives in forests, where it feeds on tree sap.
As seen in the anime, Heracross has been known to compete with Pokémon such as Pinsir for food.
The same episode also shows Heracross allowing Butterfree to feed on tree sap after Heracross has finished its meal.
In addition, it is shown to suck sap from Grass-type Pokémon such as Bulbasaur.
In Alola, it has a rivalry with Vikavolt, but get along with Pinsir well, sharing a common enemy.

This powerful Pokémon thrusts its prized horn under its enemies' bellies, then lifts and throws them.
With its Herculean powers, it can easily throw around an object that is 100 times its own weight.
Heracross charges in a straight line at its foe, slips beneath the foe's grasp, and then scoops up and hurls the opponent with its mighty horn.
This Pokémon even has enough power to topple a massive tree.
Heracross has sharp claws on its feet.
These are planted firmly into the ground or the bark of a tree, giving the Pokémon a secure and solid footing to forcefully fling away foes with its proud horn.

It's proud of its thick horn.
In Alola, its biggest rival is Vikavolt, which it's always fighting with.
It roams through forests searching for sweet nectar.
Although it boasts fantastic physical strength, it's not that good at flying.
It can grip things with its two horns and lift 500 times its own body weight.
A tremendous influx of energy builds it up, but when Mega Evolution ends, Heracross is bothered by terrible soreness in its muscles.
