Skarmory is a silver-gray, avian Pokémon with a long, metallic blue neck, legs, and tail.
It has yellow eyes, a pointed beak with several pointed teeth, and a triangular crest on its head.
There are red feathers under the sheaths that cover its sharp wings, and each feather can be moved independently.
Its wings are actually hollow, allowing it to travel up to 180 mph (300 km/h).
Its feet have three toes on them, two in front and one in back, and its tail has hooked ends.

Its steel wings become tattered and bashed in from repeated battles, but once a year the battered wings grow back completely.
This process restores the cutting edges.
Its feathers are sharp enough to be used as blades.
Its skin and feathers are solid because it lives and is raised in very harsh conditions.
Its nests are usually found in thorn bushes, where continual scratching of its skin will eventually harden it into an iron-like state.
However, water can cause Skarmory's hard body to rust easily, so it stays in its nest on rainy days.
In ancient Alola, warriors would use the sharp feathers that fell off Skarmory as swords.

After nesting in bramble bushes, the wings of its chicks grow hard from scratches by thorns.
Despite being clad entirely in iron-hard armor, it flies at speed of over 180 mph.
Skarmory is entirely encased in hard, protective armor.
This Pokémon flies at close to 190 mph.
It slashes foes with its wings that possess swordlike cutting edges.
Skarmory's steel wings become tattered and bashed in from repeated battles.
Once a year, the battered wings grow back completely, restoring the cutting edges to their pristine state.

Its feathers, which fall off as it grows, are thin and sharp.
In times long past, warriors used them as swords.
Its metal body is sturdy, but it does rust rather easily.
So on rainy days, this Pokémon prefers to stay put in its nest.
The wing feathers it sheds can be processed and made into knives whose sharpness is recognized by the finest chefs.
Its body is draped in steel armor.
It looks heavy, but it can fly at speeds of up to 185 miles an hour.
