Houndoom is a quadruped, canine Pokémon that is mainly black with a long orange snout and an orange underbelly.
It has small, red eyes and a black nose.
Around its neck is a white band with a small skull-shaped pendant on its throat.
There are two white bands on each of its ankles, as well as three rib-like ridges on its back.
Houndoom has a long, skinny tail with a triangular tip and three clawed toes on each paw.
On top of its head is a pair of long, curved gray horns.
These horns are smaller on the female than the male.

In a Houndoom pack, the one with its horns raked sharply towards the back serves a leadership role.
Leadership is determined by fights within the pack.
Its gut is full of toxins, which are used to create fire.
This gives Houndoom's fire a foul odor and the wounds it inflicts will never heal.
Houndoom appears near rough terrain areas.
Its howling induces shivering in other Pokémon, and often sends them scurrying back to their nests.

As Mega Houndoom, the ridges on its back thicken, and it gains additional, bone-like rings around the base of its tail.
The rings on its tail have small spikes on top, causing them to resemble vertebrae.
The ridge at the base of Mega Houndoom's neck is longer and curves forward towards its shoulders.
Instead of a band with a skull pendant, there is a large, toothed structure around its neck.
This bone-like formation has two large spikes on either side and three pointed teeth on the bottom.
Mega Houndoom's horns now point straight up with a small, outward curve in the middle.
The two bands on its hind legs have vanished, and those on its forelegs are broken in the front.
Its claws are a dark red due to its ability to generate more heat, which themselves cause pain to Mega Houndoom.
Finally, the tip of its tail is now split down the middle.
When it Mega Evolves, its entire body generates heat.

Long ago, people imagined its eerie howls to be the call of the grim reaper.
The flames it breathes when angry contain toxins.
If they cause a burn, it will hurt forever.
In a Houndoom pack, the one with its horns raked sharply toward the back serves a leadership role.
These Pokémon choose their leader by fighting among themselves.

They spew flames mixed with poison to finish off their opponents.
They divvy up their prey evenly among the members of their pack.
Identifiable by its eerie howls, people a long time ago thought it was the grim reaper and feared it.
