Sandslash is a bipedal, ground dwelling pholidote Pokémon.
Although Sandslash is usually bipedal, it can run on all fours.
Most of its underside is light yellow with a white underbelly.
It has a narrow muzzle, almond-shaped blue eyes, and a thick tail.
Its back is mostly covered in sharp, brown quills formed from its tough, dry hide.
It has two large claws on its paws and feet.
These claws are its primary weapons, and are used for slashing.
They can also be used for burrowing.
Its claws and spikes can both break off and are shed regularly, but grow back quickly.
It can curl into a large ball to protect its white underbelly.
In this position, it can roll to attack or escape and protect itself from heatstroke.
Sandslash is also adept at climbing trees, and is prone to ambush its enemies from above.
Sandslash can mostly be found in deserts.

In the Alola region, Sandslash has an icy blue hide and quills covered in ice.
These quills stand taller than a regular Sandslash's quills, and resemble icicles.
This Pokémon uses its hide for camouflage in the snow, while leaving only its spines exposed.
Its forepaws are larger than its counterpart, and its claws are longer, thinner, and hooked at the tips.
Despite the weight of its ice-covered body, Alolan Sandslash is able to move swiftly by carving a path in the snow with its claws.
This Pokémon tends to live in the deeper parts of snowy mountains, where climbing is forbidden.
However, the sprays of snow it kicks up are popular shots for photographers.

Although they are sharp, its claws and spikes often break off. They grow back the next day, so it is not bothered by the temporary loss.
It uses its claws to climb trees and then curls its body into a spiny ball, ready to drop onto any prey that appears.
Fleeing a volcanic eruption, it settled on a snowy mountain. As it races through the snowfields, it sends up a spray of snow.
This Pokémon's steel spikes are sheathed in ice. Stabs from these spikes cause deep wounds and severe frostbite as well.
