Meowth is a small, feline Pokémon with cream-colored fur that turns brown at the tips of its hind paws and tail.
Its ovoid head features four prominent whiskers, wide eyes with slit pupils, two pointed teeth in the upper jaw, and a gold oval coin embedded in its forehead.
Its ears are black with brown interiors, and are flanked with an additional pair of long whiskers.
Meowth is a quadruped with the ability to walk on its hind legs; while the games always depict Meowth on two legs, the anime states that Meowth normally walks on all fours.
It can freely manipulate its claws, retracting them when it wants to move silently.
The tip of its tail curls tightly.

Meowth is attracted to round and shiny objects, and has the unique ability to produce coins using Pay Day.
It is known to wander about city streets and pick up anything that sparkles, including loose change.
Upon finding a sparkling object, its eyes will glitter and the coin on its forehead will shine brightly.
Meowth is a playful Pokémon with the capacity for human-like intelligence, with at least one member of the species teaching itself how to speak.
Meowth tends to live in urban areas.

Meowth was introduced to Alola as a gift to royalty.
The luxurious royal lifestyle soon led to Meowth diverging from its origins and becoming the selfish and prideful Alolan Meowth.
Alolan Meowth will turn hysterical if its coin or pride are besmirched.
It also has great cunning.
When the monarchy fell, the rare Alolan Meowth went feral and eventually grew as common in Alola as anywhere else.
Alolan Meowth's fur is a light blue-gray color.
Instead of brown markings, the tip of its tail, whiskers, digits, and the insides of its ears a whitish-gray shade.
Alolan Meowth's whiskers maintain a slight curve compared to regular Meowth's straighter whiskers, and it has silvery eyes.

It lies around all day, becoming active near dusk. At night, it wanders the city in search of loose change.
It loves shiny things. It often fights with Murkrow over prey they're both trying to catch.
This Pokémon was not originally found in Alola.
Human actions caused a surge in their numbers, and they went feral. They're prideful and crafty.
When its delicate pride is wounded, or when the gold coin on its forehead is dirtied, it flies into a hysterical rage.
