Persian is a large, quadruped, feline Pokémon.
Its fur is pale tan with the exception of its black-rimmed ears.
It has a short muzzle with a small, black nose, red eyes with slit pupils, rounded ears, a pair of pointed teeth in its upper jaw, and three whiskers on either side of its face.
Its thick whiskers are very sensitive to changes in air movements, enabling it to detect its prey by movement alone.
In the center of its forehead is a red jewel.
Its long tail has a distinctive curl at the end.
Persian communicates with body language, and holds its tail upright to signal its intention to pounce.
It has long legs and three-toed paws with retractible claws.
Persian's lithe muscles also enable it to walk without making a sound.

Persian normally lives in towns and cities.
Although popular for its elegance, it is extremely difficult to raise as a pet due to its fickle and temperamental personality.
It will scratch anyone, including its Trainer, with little or no provocation, and has been observed ripping its prey apart for no discernible reason.
However, when a Persian is yanked by its whiskers, it becomes temporarily docile for unknown reasons.
In the past, Pay Day was its signature move.

Alolan Persian has a body that is similar to its regular counterpart, but is grey-blue in color.
Its face, however, has a different shape, being larger and more rounded with noticeable jowls.
This distinctive face is admired by the people of Alola.
Its eyes are usually in a half-closed state, and instead of a red forehead jewel, it has a blue jewel.
In behavior, it is described as highly intelligent and having an even higher opinion of itself.
It uses underhanded tactics in battle, but its haughty personality causes it to underestimate opponents.

It has a violent temperament. It will attack anything that looks it in the eye. Its sharp claws inflict deep wounds.
It has a high opinion of itself, although not to the same extent as the Alolan Persian.
It's quite difficult to make friends with this Pokémon.
Its round face and smooth coat—softer than the most high-class velvet—have made this a very popular Pokémon in Alola.
It looks down on everyone other than itself. Its preferred tactics are sucker punches and blindside attacks.
