Alakazam is characterized by its humanoid structure and large mustache.
The female Alakazam has a significantly shorter mustache than the male.
Its snout is long and thin, and it has long, ear-like spikes extending from the back of its head.
Additional spike protrude from each cheek.
Covering its yellow, skeletal body are brown armor-like sections over its chest, shoulders, forearms and knees.
There are three toes on each foot, each of which has a white claw.
It wields a silver spoon in each hand, which act as amplifiers for its psychic abilities.
Alakazam is able to lower the accuracy of its opponents by bending the spoons it wields, using its signature move Kinesis.

As Mega Alakazam, this Pokémon gains a large white beard and its mustache becomes larger and white.
The armor-like sections become bulkier, and its upper body section becoming slightly shorter to reveal its thin stomach.
The head becomes diamond-shaped, but it keeps its four spikes.
Additionally, it gains a large, oval, red organ in the center of its forehead.
The organ is said to emit psychic power.
1] Its lower legs become longer and slimmer and its feet become skinnier and resemble talons.
It gains three additional spoons, for a total of five that it levitates in the air.
Mega Alakazam's power is entirely converted to pure psychic energy, at the cost of its already-low muscular strength.
It can read the course of a person's entire life with a single glance.

Alakazam is able to use all forms of psychic abilities.
These powers are used to move its body, as opposed to its weak muscles.
It also uses its psychic powers to hold up its head, which is too heavy to be supported by its neck, due to its continually growing brain.
It is said to have an excellent memory and can remember everything that it has experienced since hatching as an Abra, and has an IQ that exceeds 5,000.
It is found in urban areas.

It is said to have an IQ of approximately 5,000. Its overflowing psychokinetic powers cause headaches to anyone nearby.
Its brain cells continue to increase in number until its death. The older the Alakazam, the larger its head.
As a result of Mega Evolution, its power has been entirely converted into psychic energy, and it has lost all strength in its muscles.
Its hidden psychic power has been unleashed.
A glance at someone gives it knowledge of the course of that person’s life, from birth to death.
