Golem is a bipedal tortoise-like Pokémon with plated, green rocks as its shell.
Golem grows bigger by shedding its skin once a year.
The discarded shell immediately hardens when exposed to air, crumbling away and returning to the soil.
Golem has a head protruding out of the center of the shell, short arms that have three claws, and two legs with five-clawed feet that have four claws in front and one in back.
It has red eyes and a flat snout with two pointed teeth in its lower jaw.
As shown in the Pocket Monsters Carddass Trading Cards, Golem's shell is hollow.

The anime has shown that Golem is able to withdraw its head, arms, and legs into its shell and roll at high speeds.
Golem is dangerous when doing this, as it is unable to see and may crash into or run over anything in its path.
To prevent it from rolling into the homes of people downhill, grooves are dug into the sides of the mountains to divert the rolling Golem's course.
Golem's body is so hard that even dynamite cannot scratch it.
Golem is seldom seen in the wild.
However, it can be found living in mountainous regions.

The Alolan Golem has shorter forearms with two claws and only two claws on its feet.
The face has attracted more iron sand, creating the appearance of a mustache, eyebrows and a large black beard.
Above its head are two large black rocks jutting out of its body.
On the inner edge of these rocks are three golden dots.
In-between the two large rocks is a shorter black rock.
The Alolan Golem is capable of firing this rock for attacking; if it is not available, it will fire nearby Geodude instead.

Its body can survive dynamite blasts without a single scratch, but it hates rain and humidity.
Once a year, this Pokémon molts, and its shed shell returns to the soil.
This process creates enriched soil, so farmers collect the shells.
It fires rocks charged with electricity.
Even if the rock isn't fired that accurately, just grazing an opponent will cause numbness and fainting.
Because it can't fire boulders at a rapid pace, it's been known to seize nearby Geodude and fire them from its back.
