Slowbro is a bipedal, pink Pokémon with a tan, striped belly and a tan muzzle.
It has large, vacant eyes, curled ears, and two pointed teeth protruding from its upper jaw.
On its hands, it has three clawed fingers, and two clawed toes on its feet.
There is a Shellder attached to its tail.
This Shellder has a gray, spiraled shell with darker gray spots.
There are several spikes across the surface of the Shellder, and it holds onto Slowbro with many sharp teeth.
If the Shellder is knocked off, Slowbro will revert to its unevolved form.

Slowbro has lost the capability to feel pain due to the Shellder's poison.
However, it apparently becomes inspired when the Shellder bites down on its tail.
While it is capable of unleashing powerful psychic attacks, Slowbro is typically rather peaceful and usually prefers not to fight.
Because it can no longer fish using its tail, it instead swims to catch its prey and allows the Shellder to feed on its leftover scraps.
Slowbro tends to live near ponds, lakes, and seashores.

When Slowbro Mega Evolves into Mega Slowbro, it becomes engulfed by the Shellder to the point where only its head, arms and tail are visible.
The spiral Shellder now has an opening at its tip, allowing the tail of Slowbro to stick out, which it balances on due to its legs being engulfed.
It can move by bouncing, using its tail as a spring.
The spikes on the Shellder are now reduced to four on the bottom section of its body, with the dark spots only visible on its middle section.
Mega Slowbro's energy has gathered into Shellder, which has increased its hardness.
This allows it to act as an armor so hard that nothing can scratch it.

It spaces out while gazing at the sea.
With Shellder's poison flowing through its body, it becomes even spacier.
Whenever Shellder bites down hard on its tail, it gives Slowbro a flash of inspiration.
.which it forgets a moment later.
All the energy from Mega Evolution poured into the Shellder on its tail, leaving Slowpoke to be swallowed whole.
When bathed in the energy of Mega Evolution, Shellder converts into impregnable armor.
There is virtually no change in Slowpoke.
