Grimer is a slimy, amorphous blob-like Pokémon, made of living purple sludge.
Its body contains a variety of pungent bacteria, which are so potent that it renders soil barren and incapable of supporting plant life.
It has two large eyes with beady pupils, and a gaping mouth with a grey tongue.
While it lacks any visible legs, it does have two arms with three digits on each hand.
It is constantly oozing; endlessly leaking a bacteria-rich fluid from all parts of its body.
Pieces of it often breaks off during travel, and from these pieces new Grimer will begin to grow.
When combined with another Grimer, it produces new poisonous compounds.

Due to its lack of a solid form, it is capable of squeezing into any space or crevices with relative ease.
It uses this to penetrate sewage pipes so that it may feed off of the filthy waste water inside.
It happily consumes and thrives off nearly any form of waste or refuse.
It can be found in polluted lakes and streams, as well as within cities and factories where trash and industrial waste can be found.

Grimer was brought to Alola to deal with the excess waste generated by the region's increased population.
However, with little liquid sludge to feed on, it took to eating solid garbage instead; this steady diet of trash caused its form to change.
This variant's body is green with a line of yellow sludge along its lower lip.
It also has two "teeth" in its upper jaw; these are actually crystallized toxins formed from the garbage that Grimer has been eating.
It is not known how to break down these toxic crystals, but direct contact with them is known to be dangerous.
Lethal poisons leak out of Grimer's body when these crystals fall out.
Grimer is perpetually hungry and must constantly eat trash; if none is readily available, it will eat other manufactured products instead.
Because it stores its toxins within the crystals, Alolan Grimer does not produce a foul stench like the standard version.

Its main source of food is the slimy industrial waste of factories.
This Pokémon's numbers have been decreasing in recent years.
It was born from sludge transformed by exposure to X-rays from the moon.
When its internal load of germs decreases, it dies.
A Grimer, which had been brought in to solve a problem with garbage, developed over time into this form.
The crystals on Grimer's body are lumps of toxins.
If one falls off, lethal poisons leak out.
