Muk is a large, sticky, amorphous Pokémon, made of living purple sludge.
It has two small eyes with beady black pupils.
It also has an enormous mouth with a grey tongue and strands of ooze connecting its top and bottom jaws.
While it has no visible legs, it does have two arms with three fingers on each hand.
However, it typically keeps one hand tucked in while it extends the other hand.

It is a living biohazard, leaking toxins that instantly kill all plant life it touches.
Even it being in close proximity to plants will cause them to wilt and die.
Extreme caution is advised in avoiding any contact with this Pokémon, as an accidental brush up can lead to severe sickness.
The effects of this Pokémon can leave the landscape barren for three years.
In dirty residential areas where people throw trash into the streets, it is almost certain to appear.
It will readily consume nearly any waste or refuse generated by people and Pokémon alike.
It can be found in heavily polluted bodies of water, cities and factories.
However, Muk's population has declined due to recent environmental improvements, leading some to believe that it will go extinct at some point.

Alolan Muk has a more vibrant coloration, consisting of green, pink, yellow, and blue.
The green, yellow, and pink colors are capable of shifting downwards while the blue stays in place.
Like Alolan Grimer, it has various white crystals protruding from parts of its body, especially from its mouth and fingers, giving the impression of claws and teeth.
It has blue pupils, black coloring behind its eyes, and a light blue tongue.
Its vivid coloration is a result of the garbage it eats, which causes chemical changes in its body; these same chemical changes are thought to be the cause of its unending hunger.
It's unexpectedly quiet and friendly, but if it is not fed trash for a while, its hunger will compel it to destroy its Trainer's furnishings for food.
The crystals covering its body have a tendency to break off, which makes it extremely difficult to deal with due to the concentrated toxins contained within them.
This variant of Muk does not produce the foul stench that the standard version is infamous for.

The stench it gives off will make your nose scrunch up.
Still, there are Muk fans who think that's a good thing.
After recent environmental improvements, this Pokémon is now hardly seen at all.
People speculate that it may go extinct at some point.
The garbage it eats causes continuous chemical changes in its body, which produce its exceedingly vivid coloration.
While it's unexpectedly quiet and friendly, if it's not fed any trash for a while, it will smash its Trainer's furnishings and eat up the fragments.
